[[Design]]

**joseph_2020_the_manipulation_of_affect_a_meta-analysis_of_affect_induction_procedures.pdf**

- In general, most people, while being more influenced by nega- tive stimuli in the short term, tend to experience more positive than negative emotions, in general (Diener & Diener, 1996). We found evidence of this positivity bias in the present analysis; participants reported substantially higher positive emotion scores than negative emotion scores at baseline, prior to experiencing an AIP.
- we note that the most effective AIP (film with instruc- tion) was approximately eight times more effective than the least effective AIP (jokes/cartoons),
- suggests AIPs exhibit significantly stronger inductions in women 
- Thus, it appears that neutral AIPs are producing unintended emotional change, on average.
- Upon com- paring the effect sizes of the various AIP types, film adminis- tered with instructions exhibited the strongest effect size (􏰬 􏰭 2.62), followed by pictures of facial expressions (􏰬 􏰭 2.06), and reading with instruction (􏰬 􏰭 1.94). Notably missing from this list of the strongest AIPs were several very popular AIPs including the Velten procedure (􏰬 􏰭 1.22), autobiographical recall (􏰬 􏰭 1.36), and film without instruction (􏰬 􏰭 1.40). These results suggest the popularity of these particular AIPs are per- haps unwarranted, as other AIPs appear to produce much stron- ger induction effects.
-  Choose your AIP type based on the emotion you are intending to induce.
	-   We recommend pictures of facial expressions for inducing broad negative affect, sadness, or happiness; film for inducing broad positive affect
- Don’t assume that the use of multiple AIPs is more effective than a single AIP.
	- Multiple AIPs were not more effective than single AIPs, on average.
- Be truthful about the purpose of the AIP to the participants whenever possible.
	- Results demonstrate that truthful AIPs are more effective than deceptive AIPs. However, if demand characteristics are a concern, deceptive AIPs are effective, on average, and can be used.
	- Early reviews of the AIP literature did not provide meta- analytic effect sizes but did provide qualitative evidence that AIPs are most effective when the intent of the induction is known to participants (Martin, 1990)
	- AIPs can be distinguished on whether participants are explic- itly instructed to feel a particular emotion (e.g., “Become fully involved and try as hard as possible to feel the mood sug- gested”; Sutherland, Newman, & Rachman, 1982, p. 129), or
	- Instruction. 
		- First, we highlight that AIPs in which the partic- ipations were given instructions were not always more effective than AIPs without instructions, suggesting that merely adding instructions to the protocol will not necessarily increase effective- ness. To maximize effectiveness, our results suggest that truthful instructions should be administered. Specifically, the emotion elic- iting effects of AIPs utilizing truthful instruction were substan- tially larger than the effects of AIPs using deceptive instructions, replicating Martin (1990). Of course, this finding could indicate that truthful instructions, in which the aim of the manipulation is made known to participants, increase demand characteristic effects and thus their stronger effectiveness could be due to artificial inflation of true emotional change. As such, researchers ought to consider the implications of this possibility when deciding how to present AIPs in their own work. Fortunately for research in which demand characteristics are a concern, our results suggest AIPs with deceptive instructions were still effective at eliciting their target emotions, on average, with nearly a one standard deviation change in emotions. Thus, although the most effective AIPs involve truth- ful instructions, AIPs were still effective, on average, with decep- tive instructions. whether the participants are not given instructions to feel a particular emotion (e.g., “Please watch the film carefully”; Rottenberg, Ray, & Gross, 2007, p. 12) and therefore do not know the intended effect of the stimuli.
- Assess whether your negative affect induction produces a negative emotional state.
	-  Results suggest that negative AIPs produce only mild negative emotions, on average. If an AIP is being used to test hypotheses that involve negative emotions, one should interpret mean levels of negative emotion after the AIP to determine whether the AIP is inducing negative affect to the desired degree.
- When interpreting results that involve an AIP, acknowledge the coupled activation of positive and negative emotion.
	- Our findings suggest that the induction of positive emotion reduces negative emotion, and the induction of negative emotion reduces positive emotion. This should be acknowledged when interpreting the results of an AIP (e.g., change due to an increase in negative mood may also be explained as change due to a decrease in positive mood).
- Report the timing of the induction and post-AIP assessment data
	- Given the need for additional data about how long AIPs last, all AIP research should report the time lag between the induction and the post-induction assessment(s). All effect sizes involving post-induction assessments should be reported.
- Use a reset induction after a negative AIP and report effect sizes from this reset to assess effectiveness.
	-  Reset inductions should be given to all negative AIP participants (rather than offered to participants). This is especially important in clinical samples, who have higher mean post-AIP negative affect than non-clinical samples.
- Single versus combined AIPs. 
	- Our results surprisingly con- trast with previous reviews that indicated combined AIPs are more effective at eliciting targeted emotions than single AIPs (Wester- mann et al., 1996). Instead, our results show that multiple AIPs do not outperform the use of single, stand-alone AIPs, on average. Although some combined AIPs (e.g., music with autobiographical recall) outperformed some stand-alone AIPs (e.g., music), none of the strongest effect sizes were from combined AIPs. Thus, the benefit of adding another layer of induction to a study appears to be minimal. We recommend that researchers avoid the assumption that more is better when administering AIPs.
