# Introduction
- The Introduction must include a review of the relevant literature that motivates the research question and a full description of the experimental aims (research questions) and hypotheses. 
- Each research question must be motivated, explained and linked to specific hypotheses (predictions). The Introduction must contain a detailed description of these hypotheses: 
	- Ensure that your predictions are defined precisely in terms of the specific independent and dependent variables.
	- Listing them as Hypothesis 1, Hypothesis 2 etc (with corresponding H0 in each case, as appropriate) is recommended.
	- The description of hypotheses must commit to interpretation of all potential data patterns (those that are predicted and those that would run counter to predictions). You cannot interpret lack of evidence (e.g. a p>0.05 in a t-test) for the existence of an effect in null hypothesis significance testing as evidence for the absence of an effect. To be able to interpret data patterns other than the predicted effect or a significant difference in the opposite direction, you must commit to using Bayesian inferential methods or frequentist equivalence testing.
- Where you describe your hypotheses, you must include a call-out to the mandatory Design Table (Table 1) – below. 
- The only changes that will be allowed to your in-principle-accepted Stage 1 protocol when you resubmit at Stage 2 will be the tense of the sentences. In the Stage 1 protocol, describe the proposed research in the future tense to avoid confusion, e.g. with existing pilot data. 
- If the evidence you will present is correlational or cross-sectional, you must ensure not to use causal language or language that implies causality.
- Your manuscript should NOT recycle text from your own or others’ previous publications without proper acknowledgment and citation of the original work. Note that text recycling from the authors’ own work is a form of plagiarism and must be avoided (see our policy here: https://www.nature.com/authors/policies/plagiarism.html). When reusing text verbatim, you must clearly indicate this in your manuscript and identify the original source. If the portion of reused text exceeds 80 words, you must seek permission from the publisher of the original work to reproduce the text.
- The Introduction should not include any subheadings. 
- The Introduction (and the manuscript in its entirety) must not include priority or novelty claims (except in the case of genetic or archaeological discovery). 
- References in the main text should appear as superscript numerals, in order of mention. Only articles that have been published or accepted by a named publication or recognized preprint server should be in the reference list. If a manuscript is under consideration or not yet submitted, it should be mentioned in the main text only in parentheses, as follows: (Up to five author names, et al., unpublished manuscript). Published conference abstracts, numbered patents and research datasets that have been assigned a digital object identifier may be included in the reference list. 
